readme.md, before:

# Hapi Everything

A Hapi server with anything and everything thrown in.

A playground for Hapi.

A place to test frontend libraries and frameworks.

## Why?

To use as a test bed for all the wonderful things Hapi (and its plugins) offer.

To compare frontend libraries and frameworks acting on the same data.

## What?

- Hapi users/groups API
- Logging to [Loggly](https://www.loggly.com/)
- Persistance to [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.org/)
- Relationships stored in [OrientDB](http://orientdb.com/)
- Testing with [Ava](https://github.com/sindresorhus/ava)
- TODO: [RethinkDB](https://www.rethinkdb.com/)

### Modular

It's easy to create a Hapi server with basic routes, better still is to pull functionality into modules, both Hapi modules (route logic and orchestration) and business modules (CRUD and business rules for domain objects).

### Frontends

Create the same application in multiple libaries/frameworks to compare them.

- A React app using [Material UI](http://www.material-ui.com/)

### Modern

I'll aim to use modern techniques as much as possible.

This started out on Node 4. Now we're on Node 6 and the need for transpiling the API code has lessened.

The frontend apps are stand-alone so any transformation can be done as and when.

AVA comes bundled with Babel so I've jumped straight into using ES7 features, namely `async`/`await`.

### Code style

- No semi-colons
- Lambdas
- Functional (Or at least some facets of functional programming)
- ES2015 as much as possible, even for the web apps
- Favour `const` over `let` and more so over `var`
- Tabs over spaces!
- Comment liberally - Why? - Because this is a learning experience and the more explanations alongside the code the better - Maybe
- [Code that acts as its own comment](http://blog.codinghorror.com/coding-without-comments/). Namely descriptive names for functions and variables

## Start-up

### API
- Fire up Mongo `mongod` (version 3.2.4)
- Fire up OrientDB `cd path/to/orientdb/bin/` then `./server.sh` (version 2.1.16)
- Run `npm start` to get the [API running here](http://localhost:3838/)
- View [request debugging](http://localhost:3838/debug/console)

### Web apps

#### React MUI

- Run `npm run serve:react-mui` to start `webpack-dev-server` and [browse to here](http://localhost:3737/)

## Testing

### API

API tests are run using [AVA](https://github.com/sindresorhus/ava).

The helper file [api.js](test/ava/helpers/api.js) makes requests to a running server. I thought about using [Hapi's `server.inject()`](http://hapijs.com/api#serverinjectoptions-callback), which I've used in the past, but I'm holding off on that to see if I miss it.

### Web apps

I'm a wannabe fan of [CodeceptJS](http://codecept.io/), I've yet to use it in anger, but I've liked what I've seen of it from the little I've used it.

CodeceptJS is an abstruction over WebdriverIO, which itself sits on top of Selenium, a running version of which is needed to run the CJS tests.

Note to self: `brew install selenium-server-standalone` and start with `selenium-server -p 4444`. The in `e2e` folder, `run codeceptjs run --steps`.

## Incremental

~~Work on this for at least 30 minutes a day. No excuses!~~

Well that didn't happen! Here for prosperity...

> Starting on Wednesday 3rd of February:
>
> - Day 1 - Project set-up: git, npm, readme - Server set-up: Hapi, routes, documentation
> - Day 2 - CRUD for users
> - Day 2.5 - Move CRUD into user object to simplify the routes
> - Day 3 - Create Users Hapi plugin - Add logging and send to Loggly
> - Day 4 - Added groups to graph
>
> Next: Serve nested groups

Commit message:

Set-up Redis in prep for caching

readme.md, after:

# Hapi Everything

A Hapi server with anything and everything thrown in.

A playground for Hapi.

A place to test frontend libraries and frameworks.

## Why?

To use as a test bed for all the wonderful things Hapi (and its plugins) offer.

To compare frontend libraries and frameworks acting on the same data.

## What?

- Hapi users/groups API
- Logging to [Loggly](https://www.loggly.com/)
- Persistance to [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.org/)
- Relationships stored in [OrientDB](http://orientdb.com/)
- Testing with [Ava](https://github.com/sindresorhus/ava)
- TODO: Caching (and key-value storage) with [Redis](http://redis.io/) and [Catbox](https://github.com/hapijs/catbox)
- TODO: [RethinkDB](https://www.rethinkdb.com/)

### Modular

It's easy to create a Hapi server with basic routes, better still is to pull functionality into modules, both Hapi modules (route logic and orchestration) and business modules (CRUD and business rules for domain objects).

### Frontends

Create the same application in multiple libaries/frameworks to compare them.

- A React app using [Material UI](http://www.material-ui.com/)

### Modern

I'll aim to use modern techniques as much as possible.

This started out on Node 4. Now we're on Node 6 and the need for transpiling the API code has lessened.

The frontend apps are stand-alone so any transformation can be done as and when.

AVA comes bundled with Babel so I've jumped straight into using ES7 features, namely `async`/`await`.

### Code style

- No semi-colons
- Lambdas
- Functional (Or at least some facets of functional programming)
- ES2015 as much as possible, even for the web apps
- Favour `const` over `let` and more so over `var`
- Tabs over spaces!
- Comment liberally - Why? - Because this is a learning experience and the more explanations alongside the code the better - Maybe
- [Code that acts as its own comment](http://blog.codinghorror.com/coding-without-comments/). Namely descriptive names for functions and variables

## Start-up

### API
- Fire up Mongo `mongod` (version 3.2.4)
- Fire up OrientDB `cd path/to/orientdb/bin/` then `./server.sh` (version 2.1.16)
- Fire up Redis `redis-server`
- Run `npm start` to get the [API running here](http://localhost:3838/)
- View [request debugging](http://localhost:3838/debug/console)

### Web apps

#### React MUI

- Run `npm run serve:react-mui` to start `webpack-dev-server` and [browse to here](http://localhost:3737/)

## Testing

### API

API tests are run using [AVA](https://github.com/sindresorhus/ava).

The helper file [api.js](test/ava/helpers/api.js) makes requests to a running server. I thought about using [Hapi's `server.inject()`](http://hapijs.com/api#serverinjectoptions-callback), which I've used in the past, but I'm holding off on that to see if I miss it.

### Web apps

I'm a wannabe fan of [CodeceptJS](http://codecept.io/), I've yet to use it in anger, but I've liked what I've seen of it from the little I've used it.

CodeceptJS is an abstruction over WebdriverIO, which itself sits on top of Selenium, a running version of which is needed to run the CJS tests.

Note to self: `brew install selenium-server-standalone` and start with `selenium-server -p 4444`. The in `e2e` folder, `run codeceptjs run --steps`.

## Notes

### Redis cheatsheet

- Install with `brew install redis`
- Start with `redis-server`
- The default port is 6379
- Check Redis is running with `redis-cli ping` or simply `redis-cli`. The former doesn't drop you into the CLI, the latter does.
- Stop Redis with `Ctrl + C`
- Run `redis-cli INFO keyspace` to list "databases"

## Incremental

~~Work on this for at least 30 minutes a day. No excuses!~~

Well that didn't happen! Here for prosperity...

> Starting on Wednesday 3rd of February:
>
> - Day 1 - Project set-up: git, npm, readme - Server set-up: Hapi, routes, documentation
> - Day 2 - CRUD for users
> - Day 2.5 - Move CRUD into user object to simplify the routes
> - Day 3 - Create Users Hapi plugin - Add logging and send to Loggly
> - Day 4 - Added groups to graph
>
> Next: Serve nested groups
